hey what's going on everybody and
welcome to this episode of learning from
the pros joining me today is Ali yerim
who is teaching us his top 10 tips on
LinkedIn ads objectives and bidding and
he's actually the co-founder and CEO of
under story which is an agency that
helps you with paid media and outbound
campaigns and uh fun fact I actually
used to work with Ali at metadata so we
go way back and it's uh super cool to
see where you are now in your entire
Journey welcome Ellie appreciate that
Sylvio it's an honor to be here I mean
you know we go way back and it's just a
rewarding experience like we were just
talking about to be able to connect over
content and talk about the real nerdy
deep aspects of advertising which we all
care so much about totally this is this
is one for the Nerds 100% we're talking
about your top 10 tips on campaign
objectives and bidding uh I know they
all got like their pen and paper out
right now ready to take notes so want to
just give us like some context on on
yourself Ali and under story and and
what you do and how you got here so I've
been working in paid media my entire
professional career I started out in B2B
advertising at a law firm advertising
company where I was their first like
full-time at operations H I moved from
there to work at metadata for a few
years where I actually met you Sylvio um
which was a life-changing experience
just working with you and under you and
learning all the top techniques for ad
campaigns but I basically took all that
experience to start my own paid media
firm which is now grown to much more
than that we're doing paid media graphic
design and also outbound campaigns so
yeah at heart I'm a true LinkedIn ads
nerd uh I love getting in like the
nitty-gritty especially as it relates to
the actual campaign setup because my
philosophy is these ad platforms are
going to make money regardless like even
if your campaigns are successful or not
so it's up to us as advertising
Specialists and experts to set up the
campaigns correctly from the start to
make sure nobody's wasting money at the
end of the day so very good philosophy
and something that everyone should
remember when you're talking to your
channel reps yeah so tip number one is I
would say 99% of the time you want to
use manual bidding when setting up your
LinkedIn ad campaigns I've rarely ever
seen automated bidding uh as an
objective on the platform be as
efficient as it is when it comes to
using manual bids and the difference is
for an automated bid you're basically
giving LinkedIn the freedom to place
your campaigns at auction for whatever
price it determines that it will win
while a manual bid you're Bas basically
setting like a cost cap you're telling
LinkedIn like this is the maximum I'm
willing to pay for a click for
conversion for a landing page view
automated bidding will never be as
efficient as setting a manual bid just
by the way that the LinkedIn algorithm
seems to work it just isn't as efficient
as setting a manual bid which gives you
that cost cap have you found that to be
true with all campaign objectives so for
example you know like conversions Legion
brand awareness engagement like you will
always index to use manual I would say
99% of the time yes I think there's some
situations where your audience is really
small like if you're around the like the
minimum is 300 and if you're trying to
do a really small like ABM campaign or
like a really small retargeting campaign
those are the cases where you might need
to either raise the bid higher than you
would normally for like a a colder
campaign with a bigger audience or just
to reach that audience in general uh
that's usually where I see automated bid
work in some sense when you switch to a
manual bid basically I'm trying to
determine whether or not we're under
over bidding based on previous spend on
the day before so it's a simple equation
that I I run in my head it's basically
looking at what was spent yesterday and
then the daily budget and then
subtracting that daily budget from the
spend and basically if you're over
spending what your daily budget is that
means you're overbidding and if you're
underd delivering compared to what your
spend is to your daily budget that means
you're under bidding so you can adjust
from there total spent yesterday minus
current daily budget if your bid is
negative you know you're under bidding
if your bid is positive then you know
you're over bidding yeah exactly it's in
simple terms it's did you spend what
your daily budget was yesterday and that
that's one of the one uh drawbacks to a
manual bid is if it's too low then
you're going to under deliver on your
daily budget so you're maximizing
efficiency but sometimes you're not
delivering that full Daily budget so
important just to see what that
threshold is how often are you checking
your your bids typically I'll do it in
like the last seven days I'll basically
see what the average cost per click is
let's say the average cost per click is
$8 for the last seven days but our bid
is at 10 then that gives me an
indication that we can potentially lower
the bid because our average cost is the
$8 Mark but we're over bidding around
$10 so that that would be an indication
the last seven days that you might want
to uh lower your bit from there tip
number three so I think this is pretty
uh straightforward but the type of
content you're promoting will determine
the ad unit if you're trying to promote
videos you know you're going to want to
lean towards the video view uh video
view objective or the engagement
objective if you're using document ads
I've seen most success using the
engagement objective if you're using
single image ads typically you've seen
the engagement or website traffic
objective to be the most successful for
doent ads what has been your experience
so far with that yeah so document ads I
would say my best practice is ungated
I've never seen gating them to be
effective and to launch them with the
engagement objective and to basically
immediately create a document ad
retargeting segment after so you can
capitalize on the engagement for those
document ads that's typically how I
approach launching a a document ad
campaign just to recap the type of
content you're promoting is going to
determine your ad unit and you want to
make sure that you Leverage the best
unit for the piece of content if not you
could be missing out on on uh Al those
cost breaks yeah so number four I
recommend using the engagement objective
for Thought leader ads the most
successful objective I've seen for
running those campaigns for our own
internal uses and for other clients is
to use the engagement objective and then
lower the cost per engagement walk me
through thought leader ads a little bit
more with everyone here what are they
just just in case somebody's this maybe
they're not they're not exposed to that
yet so the idea is you're going to take
an organic piece of content coming from
a individual profile so not a company
page but a personal profile in LinkedIn
and then you're essentially going to
sponsor it from a company page ad
account so it's going to show up as an
ad you can Target the same targeting you
would as a normal ad campaign but
instead of showing a company page is the
person who's promoting it it's just the
actual organic piece of content that's
um being promoted in the newsfeed and it
basically looks literally your normal
post but now it just becomes an ad right
like your normal your normal LinkedIn
post if you guys haven't tried thought
leader ads they are extremely effective
in terms of Engagement clickthrough
rates average cpcs because the ctrs are
so high and it offsets the cost yeah
we've seen a lot of success with those
for sure yeah and the biggest thing is
the social proof too because I think the
saying is like people buy from people so
the fact that you're going to see
somebody's profile associated with the
ad is one thing then also all the
organic social proof from the comments
and the likes that you'll naturally get
just from posting on your own profile
will also impact performance because
you'll be getting it organically and
from the paid campaigns as well number
five so this one also is pretty obvious
but I think there's one caveat which I'm
still testing which is for video content
I always use the video view objective
just as some best practices when it
comes to video content on LinkedIn
besides the objective I always use 1080
x 1080 video creatives that are
captioned that's basically for video
campaigns are the ones that I recommend
and then running them as a video view
objective setting the cost per video
views slow as possible as always what
has been your experience on the uh on
the cost side like what have you seen
the ranges be yeah so around 10 to 15
cents per video view I think there's
other channels that can be pretty a lot
cheaper than that YouTube ads have been
um pretty popular lately in B2B and I've
seen like cheaper cost for video views
but I think that range is pretty healthy
the 10 to 15 cents for video view on
then so tip number six kind of related
to the theme of depending on what your
promoting what offer what piece of
content you're promoting it kind of
determines the ad type and the objective
I've been recently promoting a lot of
events on LinkedIn using LinkedIn ads
and kind of ranked the top three ad
units that I've seen driving the most
amount of registrations at the cheapest
cost I think the number one ad format
that I've seen the best for driving
registrations is just using the lead
generation lead form ads so that's the
preop pre-populated lead formats that
LinkedIn provides just has the easiest
and most uh streamlined experience for
the user they just open the form and
convert right there with all the
prepopulated information the second ad
unit I've seen work well for driving
registrations for events is the actual
event ad unit I think what's cool about
that ad unit is has it has the social
proof so if you're driving a lot of
registrations for that event on LinkedIn
organically it'll show all of that as an
ad on the ad unit itself so I think that
is powerful it's just the conversion
rate is a little bit less than what I've
seen for the lead format ad and then my
least favorite way of I would say
generating most leads on LinkedIn is
just sending them to a landing page in
most situations to be I've just seen it
the most expensive unless it's a very
specific situation of sending people to
like a calendar link or something like
that but yeah sending people to like a
ling page to register for a webinar or
event I've Just Seen to be um the
highest cost per registration at the
lowest volume so as you mentioned there
are these pre-populated forms people
click on it the form pops up and it has
it pre-fills a lot of your information
based on your LinkedIn profile do you
have any tips for the for the audience
here around best practices on I don't
know if you've done any testing around
like number of fields things to ask like
any any nuanced Insight around on lead
forms in your experience like I said a
lot of the information is prepopulated
so I think you can get away with adding
more of the pre-populated fields I think
where it gets tricky is when you add
some of the custom variables that's
where I've seen like anything more than
two or three is where you're starting to
push it even two is kind of a lot in my
view and that's why when I'm saying
custom variables I mean ones where the
user actually has to like select a check
box or type in a their own response in
the actual lead form anything more than
two on that side is where I see start to
see conversion rates start to decrease
but I think you know I've been adding
like a good amount of the pre-populated
information for the fields and haven't
seen too much of an issue when it comes
with conversion rates on that end
unpacking that a bit for everyone
listening because this comes up all the
time in my experience as well working
with clients and but there's always a
debate landing page versus lead form
what's better right and then you have
the typical the typical debate is lead
forms more volume lower quality landing
pages less volume better quality that's
like the typical debate and there is
truth and untruth to both sides because
at the end of the day everything is on a
case-by Case basis and this is why you
need to make sure you're measuring and
understanding your lead flow measuring
quality a really tactical tip for people
listening is you can connect your lead
form leads that are submitted into a
slack Channel and then you can push
alerts from those leads based on
submission and then you can ask for job
title and Linkedin profile URL those are
both pre-populated fields that will
automatically be populated so it's no
friction on the the end of the user and
then once that lead comes into the slack
Channel you can see their job title and
then click on their LinkedIn profile URL
to really quickly vet them and see like
oh is this a good lead is it not and
then be able to make you know the
necessary exclusions and refinements but
when it comes to improving the the
performance of your lead forms what Ali
just talked about right there just I
really want to clarify this so people
know it and take action on it is you can
add those custom Dimensions to your lead
forms those custom Fields so you can add
a checkbox for example and then the
other ones too that you can do that are
pretty cool is like custom questions so
if you have like pre-qualifying
questions usually on your on your Fields
uh you can add those into the into the
form so like we're talking about events
you know you could have like a custom
question around like okay just want to
confirm which talk you're interested in
right have like different tracks or
something so you can get pretty creative
with lead forms uh for those that are
listening if you're not familiar and
then on the flip side when it comes to
landing pages this one is tough because
I I've seen both where it's like lead
forms generally speaking if I if you put
a gun to my head and you're like you got
to make it work are you going to choose
a landing page or a lead form it's going
to be a lead form for sure because it's
just going to convert better but if the
company actually invests in the landing
page in the registration page it can be
really powerful and and the key reason
why driving people to the landing page
can be really powerful for events
specifically is for retargeting because
now you open up that retargeting from
the LinkedIn traffic on other platforms
like meta YouTube Etc so this is kind of
where people when you're when you're
considering your options you need to
like think with the whole picture and
kind of like weigh those those pros and
cons you know I think of a landing page
just like copy it's just the it's the
the assemblance of multiple parts right
and you assemble all these parts
together and you get a landing page just
like with copy the number one most
important piece of the landing page
going back to the gun to the Head
example is the uh the hero section you
know the above the fold that's the most
important piece because if you're not
able to Peak curiosity above the fold
when the person lands on the page then
it doesn't matter how many other great
sections you have they're not going to
go on to it same thing with copy right
it's like the analogy I believe it was
like David David olvy where he's like
for every dollar I spend on an ad like
90 cents would go to the hook you know
it's the same thing if the hook doesn't
capture that attention and that
Curiosity you're not going to get people
to read the next line and the next line
right and that's the goal of writing
copies like the each each line sets up
the next one so yeah with the landing
pages for sure it's the hero section and
the problem with landing pages in my
experience with B2B is most people don't
start landing pages with copy in mind
they start with design and design should
always be after copy not before so
you're you write your messaging first
and then you design your page in a way
to best illustrate that messaging best
display that messaging the design and
the words on the page should also you
know direct to some action like whether
it's research or to drive signups or
something like that and you know tying
it back to the LinkedIn side you also
want to have that match between the ads
itself like the messaging in the ads and
what you're sending people like which
message is on the Lany page that you're
sending people to from the ads so I
think that's one key thing to consider
and then also conversion tracking I
think that's why a lot of people lead
more more towards the lead forms on
LinkedIn because they don't want to deal
with all the the craziness when it comes
to conversion tracking now we have the
uh the dynamic URL parameters on the
campaign level on LinkedIn so now you
can set up your tracking template at the
campaign level and you don't have to
worry about like manually tagging all
your ads for those listening one of the
biggest downsides of the the Legacy
setup where you have to like edit the
URL with the different UTM is you
weren't able to reuse the same ad across
different campaigns because You' have
the limitation of tracking where you're
like I have to edit it to be able to
swap out the URL parameter now because
of the dynamic tracking template you can
use the same ad across different
campaigns so now you're stacking social
proof which is actually one of the
things that nobody's talking about right
now that I think is like the biggest
value of the dynamic tracking template
is now the ability to stack social proof
like no other like you couldn't before
you know just like when you run meta ads
and you re use the same post ID across
your campaigns so number seven I've
honestly fallen in love with document
app
uh I think they are a really great way
to build a retargeting pool ungated I
mean typical clickthrough rates I've
seen on document ads have been 6 s% Plus
so been really happy with the
performance on document ads so far the
objective that I've seen work the best
with those ads is using the engagement
objective again tip number eight uh
conversational ads so those are the ads
that are showing up in your inbox uh
they are charged on a cost per send
basis so for every send that's exactly
how LinkedIn charges you um just on a
billing basis so what I do when I'm
launching a new conversation ad campaign
is just set it to the lowest possible
bid as always uh LinkedIn will set a
threshold for the ad unit specifically
so again just start out at the lowest
check back in the next day to see what
your delivery is and then adjust from
there another thing about combo ads I've
seen they're pretty like efficient let's
say your average cost per send is like
but you set it to five to maximize your
bids I haven't really seen the platform
adjust to where the majority of what
you're being charged will be a $5 C like
it'll still like if your average before
was around $1 like it'll keep it around
there I haven't seen it jackup prices
too much if you try to like maximize the
bid and try to like out bid your
competition I think it's because of the
second price auction model so it's like
you don't pay the amount that you bid
you you pay the amount like high enough
to beat the other person what has been
your experience so far with combo ads
and like since the focus inbox change
was released I've still seen them to be
a top performing ad unit I feel like I
get this question a lot but to be honest
I haven't seen a huge shift in
performance tip number nine so if we're
talking about single image ads in the
news feed i' say the top three
objectives that I use for that ad unit
typically it's Le generation using the
leaden forms probably should have put
second here but second one is probably
engagement that's that's like most
common objective I use for single image
then third is website visits or
conversions where I'm really trying to
drive website traffic as opposed to just
overall engagement I think those are the
top three objectives I use specifically
for single image news feed ads lead
generation engagement and then web
visits and conversion when it comes to
single image ads final tip I very rarely
use the reach objective on LinkedIn
where you're optimizing for Impressions
or reach I just find it to be the most
expensive because you're paying non-stop
basically so if it's on a cost per
impression basis like if people are
seeing the ads you're being charged
while on something like a cost per click
or cost per engagement basis people can
have seen your ad already before they
even click on it before your charge so
that is just what I've seen on the reach
objective that I've rarely found a use
for it because the cost for clicks have
been really expensive when I'm using
that ad unit as well so it's even hard
to build like retargeting audiences from
the reach objective so my advice is stay
away from the reach objective that's my
10th and final uh tip thank you Ali I
hope everyone got a ton of value out of
this if people want to connect with you
Ali where can they you can find me on
LinkedIn but connect with me on LinkedIn
and then we'll also link my website as
well Ali thank you so much for being
here everyone listening I hope you got a
ton of value from it and we'll see you
in the next one thanks you syia